1. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
1.1. Background.
The Air Force Medical Readiness Agency, Capability Development Division (AFMRA/SG5) has the 
responsibility for capability development within the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS). 
AFMRA/SG5 oversees capability development and integration to provide affordable, sustainable, and 
integrated solutions to the warfighter and beneficiaries through capabilities-based assessments, 
innovation, research and development, acquisition, operational, and program management support. 
AFMRA/SG5 establishes strategies, guidelines, policies, and procedures for defining, developing, 
documenting, and validating AFMS operational capability requirements, coordinates with enterprise 
partners to execute a research and development portfolio, and conducts test and evaluation activities in 
support of those portfolios.
The Requirement Management Branch (AFMRA/SG5R) is responsible for identifying and prioritizing
AFMS operational capability gaps, conducting Capabilities Based Assessments (CBAs), Analysis of 
Alternatives (AoAs), Cost Analyses, and development of AFMS requirement documents in support of 
the Surgeon General Requirements Oversight Council (SGROC) and in accordance with the Joint 
Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS).
The AFMRA/SG5 Lifecycle Strategy Branch, Innovation and Transition Branch (SG5L-S) is 
responsible for applying program management principles across the lifecycle spectrum of research and 
development to include requirement generation and management, applied scientific research, basic and 
applied sciences, advanced development, acquisition programmatics, test and evaluation, and 
sustainment and logistics.
The Force Development Division (AFMRA/SG1/8) supports the full spectrum of military 
operations, and the AFMS readiness goal of maintaining medically ready Airmen, by ensuring 
well-trained, well equipped, and current medics.
The Command Support Staff (AFMRA/CSS) is responsible for coordinating operational and 
administrative support and execution for 652 Headquarters-level personnel across 20 
geographically separated units. The training administrator facilitates required training and oversees 
the completion and documentation of standard training requirements across three databases for a 
total of 5,000-plus items. Training administrators monitor and report delinquent or non-compliant 
training to training managers and supervisors across 10 Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG)
subordinate organizations.
1.2. Scope. 
This requirement spans all areas of Research & Development (R&D) Support Services market 
segment. The contractor shall provide non-personal, professional, and advisory and assistance for a 
variety of medical research and development program management, requirements management, cost 
analysis support, training administration, administrative and clerical management support. Program 
technical areas will span, but are not limited to, Medical Simulation Technologies; Infectious 
Diseases; Military Health, Performance, and Recovery; Joint Battlefield Healthcare; Radiation Health 

Effects; Clinical & Rehabilitative Medicine; Chemical and Biological Readiness; Clinical 
Investigations, Graduate Health Science Education, and Military Health System Research; Genomics 
and Omics-based Research; and other Emerging Science and Technology. The Contractor shall 
establish and maintain communication with all stakeholders involved with or influential to capability 
development and integration as these services are non-performance based. Performance based 
acquisition is not appropriate for this acquisition because the government requires a specific number of 
employees in various labor categories to work with government employees.
2. APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS
DOCUMENT NAME
Air Force Handbook (AFH) 33-337, The Tongue and Quill
Joint Travel Regulation (JTR )
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management Program
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) Manual (2021)
Air Force A5/7 Capability Development Guidebooks & Handbooks
Department of Defense Instruction 5000 Series
AFI 36-2651 AF Training
3. CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
3.1. Support Services. The Contractor shall provide Program Management Support Services to 
AFMRA/SG5 as described in the following paragraphs by task.
3.1.1. TASK I – EXECUTIVE ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
The contractor shall provide one mid-senior level Executive Administrative Support to two 
Government executives and approximately 40 personnel within the SG5 Capability Development
Division, located at Defense Health Headquarters (DHHQ), 7700 Arlington Blvd., Falls Church, VA.
3.1.1.1. Use office automation software, such as Microsoft Office, to create and edit documents, 
presentations, graphics, tables, electronic drafts, and electronic mail. Update existing databases or 
spreadsheets. Review, edit, and update documents to include checking for proper format, spelling, 
grammar, capitalization, and punctuation. Prepare and submit documents in appropriate formats IAW 
the latest Air Force Handbook (AFH) 33-337, The Tongue and Quill.
3.1.1.2. Receive telephone calls, greet, and prepare for visitors, and determine the nature of the calls 
or visits; screen for requests that can be handled without assistance. Update and maintain office 
procedures to ensure effective and efficient operations. Assist division personnel in locating and 
selecting the appropriate guidelines, references, and procedures for application to specific taskings and 
inquiries. Ensure correspondence and communication with returned calls, emails, and faxes are 
promptly addressed within one (1) business day.
3.1.1.3. Manage division’s Temporary Duty (TDY) approval process. Coordinate and track all 
division funded and cross organizational TDYs. Plan and coordinate travel arrangements for 
executives within 24 hours of request in the Defense Travel System (DTS). Travel arrangements shall 
include making reservations, scheduling transportation, securing protocol and area approvals, 
preparing travel itineraries and preparing travel orders based on general travel intentions or known 
preferences of the traveler IAW established travel regulations. All military and government civilian 
travel must be IAW the Joint Travel Regulation (JTR ) for Department of Defense (DoD) Uniformed 

Service members and Civilian Employees at:
http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf. 
3.1.1.4. Maintain and collect requests for office supplies as requested and approved by the SG5 
Division Chief or designee. All requests will be coordinated with the AFMRA/SG5 Government 
Purchase Card Holder for ordering and receipt of supplies and equipment. 
3.1.1.5. Attend meetings and record meeting minutes and action items as requested by the 
government leads to ensure clear, concise, and accurate communication is documented in support of 
decisions, recommendations and courses of action. Establish draft suspenses of all meeting actions. 
Track and monitor all division’s administrative suspenses and dates to ensure all actions are completed 
in a timely and efficient manner. Provide meeting minutes to the Government within five business 
days of the conclusion of the meeting IAW CDRL A002 and corresponding DID. 
3.1.1.6. Review, process, and route incoming and outgoing correspondence, reports, and other written 
materials submitted for review and coordinate for signature as applicable. 
3.1.1.7. Coordinate and schedule meetings and conference calls. Manage executives’ schedules and 
calendars. Provide administrative support as needed at AF supported conferences (e.g., Military Health 
System Research Symposium (MHSRS)).
3.1.1.8. Assist the Government Records Custodian with record management including planning, 
organizing, training, and managerial activities records creation, maintenance, use, and disposition in 
accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management Program.
3.1.1.9. Manage Task Management Tool (TMT) managerial activities including planning, organizing, 
training, coordination and distribution, and timely/accurate task completion.
3.1.1.10. Maintain division’s SharePoint site ensuring up-to-date documents are organized, accurate, 
and posted in a timely manner.
3.1.2. TASK II –REQUIREMENTS ANALYST MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
(CLASSIFIED) 
Contractor shall provide three mid-level and one senior-level Requirement Management (RM) 
Analysts to assist in requirements development and management services in support of 
AFMRA/SG5R located at DHHQ, Falls Church, VA. Provide RM analysts to aid with business and 
project planning to support deliberate planning process at the enterprise level and in support of AF/SG 
and nine Major Commands Surgeons General (MAJCOM/SGs). Assist the Government with 
organizing, facilitating, and managing Integrated Process Teams (IPTs) and High-Performance Teams 
(HPT), Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) document development IAW 
the JCIDS Manual instructions and applicable AF policies and instructions and other related activities
across all AF medical readiness domains. 
3.1.2.1. Assist in leading the development of AFMS, MAJCOM/Functional CBAs and other analysis 
or studies through planning, coordinating, and facilitating IPTs and HPTs. Organize and coordinate all 
aspects of an IPT, HPT or CBA. The IPT is a precursor to the HPT and may be conducted via 
teleconference with the sponsor. The HPT event adequately captures, articulates, and enables 
documentation of the sponsors’ capability gaps and aids in definition of the operational requirements. 
Document facilitated sessions, record, and track action items by efficiently gathering required 
information, preparing, and coordinating the CBA final report IAW CDRL A006 and corresponding 
DID for final review and sponsors’ signature within 30 calendar days from the conclusion of the HPT 
event. 

3.1.2.2. Review AFMS requirements and provide detailed alignment assessments using established 
AFMS strategic map and other strategic guidance as provided by AFMRA/SG5 leadership.
3.1.2.3. Provide the facilitation, research, analysis, and documentation necessary to deliver 
requirements documents to government for approval. In performance of this task, collaborate with the 
functional sponsor and applicable government SMEs/offices. The Contractor shall adjudicate 
coordinated document comments in coordination with the sponsor(s) and ensure the documentation is 
accurate and complete before submission to the government.
3.1.2.4. Gather required information to prepare, coordinate, and complete JCIDS requirements
documentation for approval and signature within 30 calendar days from the conclusion of the HPT
event. Requirements documentation may consist of, however is not limited to, the CBA; Initial 
Capabilities Document (ICD); Information Systems ICD (IS-ICD); Capability Development 
Document (CDD); CDD Update; Information Systems CDD (IS-CDD); Operational Needs Statement 
(ONS); Joint Doctrine, Organization, Training, materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, 
Facilities, and Policy (DOTmLPF-P) Change Recommendation (CR), Joint Urgent Operational Need 
(JUON); or Joint Emergent Operational Need (JEON). 
3.1.2.5. Liaise with stakeholders and gather required information to ensure requirements projects are 
started and completed within approved timeframes. Prepare documents and presentations. Gather, 
review, and provide briefings to the AFMRA, and HAF leadership.
3.1.2.6. Obtain and maintain Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) access/account for 
JCIDS classified communication. Review and manage taskings, JCIDS requirement documents, and 
other official documents received for coordination on SIPRNET. Support document reviews process, 
ensure proper coordination with the stakeholders (i.e., SGROC voting members and functional 
experts). Collect and consolidate inputs. Provide additional comments and submit the comment 
resolution matrix document to the government for review and final approval. Submit government 
approved comments via SIPRNET organizational box, Information and Resource Support System
(IRSS) or other classified information management system. 
3.1.2.7. Develop, review, and edit documents and reports to include ensuring correct content, format, 
spelling, grammar, and punctuation. Prepare and submit documents in appropriate formats IAW the 
JCIDS manual, Air Force A5/7 Capability Development Guidebooks & Handbooks, and other 
applicable guidance.
3.1.2.8. Organize, electronically file, and monitor all requirements generation projects and report 
progress updates to the government upon request or during scheduled staff meetings.
3.1.2.9. Attend meetings, conferences, and seminars that routinely include MAJCOM and other DoD 
agencies participation to assist the Government in the formulation and development of AFMS 
capabilities-based planning in support of the development of strategic goals, as well as aid in 
identification of AF and DoD medical requirements. The RM analyst will assist the Government with 
organizing, facilitating, and managing IPTs, HPTs, staff meetings, SGROC, Capability Development 
Oversight Group (CDOG), and other senior level meetings.
3.1.2.10. Use the JCIDS to drive AFMS medical modernization, Joint Staff initiatives, CBAs and 
future strategic planning to meet the National Defense objectives. 
3.1.2.11. Assist in establishing processes and procedures to improve requirements document 
development to maximize operational capability and support to the warfighter.
3.1.2.12. Assist in developing informational and decision papers and executive briefings that clearly 
describe the requirements in the appropriate level of detail for AFMS Governance to understand the 

capability supported by the potential solution, the alternatives, their business impacts and benefits, and 
the implications to the users.
3.1.2.13. Research and remain abreast of DoD and industry best practices and guidelines in deriving 
user requirements.
3.1.2.14. Manage JCIDS requirement documents on the Government provided SharePoint site or 
other designated storage location.
3.1.2.15. Provide subject matter expertise and technical, administrative, editorial, and graphics 
assistance, as necessary, for the purpose of preparing reports; studies; analyses; and briefs on various 
financial, administrative, and business process matters related to capability development management 
and processes. Such work may encompass but is not limited to conducting information searches; 
scientific, medical, financial, and technical writing; editing; graphics preparation; and report layout 
and production.
3.1.2.16. Prepare Government for solution pathway decisions by conducting and producing reports on 
current market capabilities aligned to requirements using best practices for Market Research per the 
Defense Acquisition University guidelines.
3.1.3. TASK III –TRAINING and STAFF DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
3.1.3.1. Training Specialist III. The contractor shall provide a Training Specialist III in support of 
AFMSA/CSS located at DHHQ, Falls Church, VA. Monitor and document compliance via the 
appropriate tracking system (i.e., Air Force Training Record (AFTR), Air Force Information 
Management Publishing Tool, Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS), Joint Knowledge 
Online (JKO), etc.) or other methodology which includes using various automated software, accessing 
different training systems and entering appropriate data.
3.1.3.1.1. Assists the Program Manager (PM) in the management of the AFMS electronic training 
records of approximately 30,000 AF enlisted service members holding 17 medical specialty ratings. 
Create ad-hoc reports to assist the government with determining the status of medical readiness 
training. Aid programmers/analysts in program development, testing and implementation of 
application features and support system release roll- outs ensuring functionalities are operationally 
effective.
3.1.3.1.2. Schedule conference rooms and set up required audio-visual equipment for meetings and 
trainings.
3.1.3.1.3. Review and coordinate AFMS Career Field Training and Education Programs (CFETPs) 
with Career Field Managers to ensure that they are in compliance with AFI 36-2651 AF Training 
Program prior to new CFETPs upload into AFTR.
3.1.3.1.4. Review E-Publications to ensure that AFTR has the most current dated CFETPs and 
Changes uploaded.
3.1.3.1.5. Utilize the Administrator Toolset within ADLS to resolve users syncing issues with ADLS 
and AFTR.
3.1.3.1.6. Provide training and technical help desk assistance and support for incoming queries and 
issues related to the AFTR program. Help desk responsibilities include ensuring the accuracy and 
integrity of the program, including data input and output, technology management, and training and 
support; guiding users through problem-solving processes; following-up with users to ensure issues 
have been resolved; writing training manuals and developing instructional tools to assist users with 
navigation throughout the program; and maintaining trouble ticket log and develop trend analysis for 

recurring issues. Respond to user queries via the AFTR Workflow e-mail box or over the phone for 
users seeking assistance.
3.1.3.1.7. Evaluate and analyze System Change Requests (SCRs) for feasibility and submit to the 
AFTR Program Managers Air Force Civil Engineer Center for coordination with the AFTR 
Configuration Control Board (CCB).
3.1.3.1.8. Attend and provide input from AFMS users at AFTR CCB meetings.
3.1.3.1.9. Conduct AFTR training sessions either in a formal class setting or via Defense Connect 
Services.
3.1.3.2. Training Administrator. The contractor shall provide a Training Administrator in support 
of AFMSA/CSS located at DHHQ, Falls Church, VA. Provide training and technical assistance with 
staff development and perform the following duties:
3.1.3.2.1. Assists the unit training manager and commander support staff to include new member in 
and out processing, ancillary training tracking, scheduling and facilitating newcomer’s orientation, and 
speaker coordination and agenda development for various meetings and training events.
3.1.3.2.2. Monitor and document training compliance via the appropriate tracking system (i.e., 
AFTR, ADLS, JKO, or other methodology which includes using various automated software) 
accessing different training systems and entering appropriate data.
3.1.3.2.3. Report compliance to the government oversight and unit training manager on a weekly 
basis covering all aspects and types of training for military and civilian personnel, including but not 
limited to ADLS certifications for active duty, civilians and contractor personnel, Suicide Prevention, 
Newcomers Orientation, Resiliency/Green Dot training.
3.1.3.2.4. Plan, organize and facilitate Newcomers Orientation, Green Dot Training, and Resilience 
Training. Track numbers of personnel trained, maintain sign in rosters, and report training compliance 
as required.
3.1.4. TASK IV – COST ANALYSIS SERVICE SUPPORT
The contractor shall provide one mid-level and one senior level cost analyst in support of 
AFMRA/SG5R at DHHQ, Falls Church, VA. Provide cost life cycle management expertise in support 
of program requirements managers, project planning activities, and deliberate planning processes at an 
enterprise level. Perform the following duties: 
3.1.4.1. Provide day-to-day operational analysis support to include responding to urgent and shortnotice taskers and attending and participating in IPTs, HPTs, internal and external strategic meetings, 
including SGROC, CDOG, and others as determined by AFMRA/SG5. 
3.1.4.2. Prepare cost estimates in support of joint or AFMS medical modernization portfolio and 
acquisition programs. Provide cost analysis support in the areas of IM/IT, Defense Acquisition, 
Science & Technology, Research and Development Investment Strategy, and Medical Readiness. 
Perform alternative and affordability analysis to include excursions and sensitivity analysis using 
historical performance models, cost models, and program metrics. All reports are due 10 business days 
after request from the government IAW CDRL A007 and corresponding DID.
3.1.4.3. Assess cost and budget impacts of program alternatives, prepare briefings in accordance with 
the established guidelines, and expertly present the information to the senior leadership, including the 
members of the SGROC.
3.1.4.4. Conduct cost analyses in support of the following analyses: Work Breakdown Structure 
(WBS), Business Case Analysis (BCA), Life Cycle Cost (LCC), Cost as an Independent Variable 

(CAIV), Cost benefit/cost risk analyses, affordability/supportability analysis, Market Research 
analysis, commercial off the shelf product evaluation and analysis, Earned Value Management (EVM), 
Return on Investment (ROI) analysis and Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) estimates. All cost 
estimates are due 10 business days after request from Government IAW CDRL A007 and 
corresponding DID.
3.1.4.5. Conduct interviews, research, data analysis, and translate technical/programmatic language 
into cohesive written documents and presentations.
3.1.4.6. Assist senior Government staff in the development of acquisition strategies, analyses, plans 
and documents.
3.1.4.7. Respond to queries, prepare reports, justifications and background papers as applicable to the 
cost analyst duties.
3.1.4.8. Provide project status progress updates weekly to the COR or leadership unless individuals 
are on travel or otherwise out of the office. Progress updates will be prepared and delivered at a date 
set forth by the PM or COR.
3.1.5. TASK V – CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM MANAGEMENT SERVICE 
SUPPORT 
Provide two Program Manager Level II support personnel to monitor, coordinate, and plan projects 
within the AFMRA/SG5 Lifecycle Strategy Branch, Innovation and Transition Branch (SG5L-S) and 
Requirements Management Branch (SG5R) at DHHQ in Falls Church, VA.
3.1.5.1. Provide subject matter expert (SME) and demonstrate comprehensive knowledge across the 
Defense Acquisition System including Requirements, Research & Development and Acquisition, and 
Planning, Programming, Budget & Execution.
3.1.5.2. Coordinate the CDOG and SGROC meetings in concert with AFMRA/SG5 leadership. 
Responsible for all administrative and logistical actions in coordination of the CDOG and SGROC, 
both of which meet no less than quarterly or as required, to include preparation of read-aheads, slide 
presentations, documentation of proceedings, video and teleconferencing, and logistical requirements 
(i.e., venue location and set-up). Provide administrative support for the strategic oversight and 
guidance of execution activities funded by Defense Health Program (DHP) Research, Development, 
Testing and Evaluation (RDT&E) resources.
3.1.5.3. Maintains and coordinates CDOG and SRGOC meeting schedules to meet organization 
needs.
3.1.5.4 Maintains and coordinates meeting schedules to meet organization needs.
3.1.5.5. Executes administrative and logistical actions including securing meeting venue, drafting and 
sending meeting invitations, agenda approval and distribution, organizing read-ahead materials and 
draft and final slide presentations for meetings. Conduct administrative, logistical and collaboration 
with internal and external customers (i.e., SG5R, SG5L-S, MAJCOMs, and other Agency members).
3.1.5.6. Create and route meeting minutes and memorandums for coordination/signature of CDOG 
and SGROC Chair(s) via SG5R and/or SG5L-S leadership. Distribute approved and signed 
memorandums to the respective forum’s voting members within the timeframe specified in the 
applicable charter.
3.1.5.7. Update and maintain the CDOG and SCROC membership contact list. Manage CDOG and 
SGROC RMCT required training of voting members.
3.1.5.8. Attend conferences, seminars, and working groups that routinely include MAJCOM and 
other DoD agency participation to formulate and develop joint and AFMS strategies.

3.1.5.9. Conduct required research in preparation of draft requirement documents. Coordinate 
policies and procedures using JCIDS and all applicable directives.
3.1.5.10. Prepare status updates as required by Division Chief; SG5R; SG5L-S; SGROC Voting 
Members, AFROC, and the JROC as reported by SG5R.
3.1.5.11. Assist SG5R and SG5L-S leadership in the collection and organization of information from 
a variety of sources. Gather input from Government and Contractor SMEs. 
3.1.5.12. Attend division leadership meetings as requested; set-up meeting rooms and equipment, 
record meeting minutes, track and report on open action items and follow-up until closure.
3.1.5.13. Assist with the management of the AFMS Innovation Program, including the development 
of and implementation of the division’s innovation strategies in concert with Government 
stakeholders. Interface with internal and external Government and Industry stakeholders towards the 
execution of innovation strategies. Establish relationships with inter- and intra-agency partners (i.e., 
AFWERX, SBIR/STTR (Small Business Innovation Research/ Small Business Technology Transfer) 
programs, etc.), and partner with innovation transition stakeholders across the RD&A, Logistics, and 
end-user communities.
3.1.5.1.14. Provide monthly status report No Later Than (NLT) 5th of the month for the previous 
month to the COR IAW CDRL A003 and corresponding DID.
3.1.6. TASK VI – INTEGRATION PROGRAM MANAGEMENT SERVICE SUPPORT
Provide one Program Manager Level III support personnel to monitor, coordinate, and plan projects 
within the AFMRA/SG5 Lifecycle Strategy Branch, Innovation and Transition Section (SG5L-S) at
DHHQ in Falls Church, VA.
3.1.6.1. Serve as Subject Matter Expert (SME) and demonstrate comprehensive knowledge of several 
related fields across the Defense Acquisition System including Requirements, Research & 
Development, Acquisition, and Planning, Programming, Budget & Execution.
3.1.6.2. Manage all project-related information for AFMS-funded or managed projects and programs 
that are anticipated to develop a materiel solution for entry into the AFMS RD&A portfolio, and serve 
as the AFMRA/SG5 point of contact (POC) to collect, review, document, and share project related 
information and identify and address antiquated or missed information with Government points of 
contact, project managers, principle investigators, subject matter experts, end-users, and other 
stakeholders. Schedule, facilitate, conduct, and document project reviews with leadership, briefers, 
subject matter experts, and other stakeholders.
3.1.6.3. Interface with research agencies, MAJCOM/SGRs, and Air Force Lifecycle Management 
Center Aeromedical Branch (AFLCMC/WNU) to collect, manage, and maintain programmatic, 
regulatory, and financial information on medical projects and programs managed under the auspice of 
AFMRA/SG5. Assist the 711th Human Performance Wing (711 HPW) and Defense Health Agency 
Deputy Assistant Director Research & Engineering (DAD/R&E) and Acquisition & Sustainment 
(DAD/A&S) with the research-related activities that have AFMS equity.
3.1.6.4. Update and maintain project and program spreadsheet/databases and associated projectspecific documents such as Technology Readiness Assessments (TRAs),Technology Transition 
Agreements (TTAs), and other similar documents in coordination with the 711 HPW; develop a filing 
strategy and maintain project documents on a shared drive, SharePoint or other designated storage 
location, in an organized format. Ensure authorized stakeholders are provided access to project 
information and information is properly archived.
3.1.6.5. Review project information and interface with the project OPR(s) to update TTAs and other 
documents on an annual basis or more frequently as needed by project or programchanges in 

coordination with the 711 HPW. Provide project or program information to management when 
requested and assist with planning of funding and transition for projects. Identify projects that require 
a TRA and assist with scheduling a review. Maintain version control of documents and information.
3.1.6.6. Liaise with AFMRA/SG5R to understand requirements and capability gaps for materiel 
research. Coordinate with AFLCMC/WNU and Engineering, Test, and Sustainment Services Branch 
(SG4E) for program management, clinical engineering, medical maintenance, and operational test and 
evaluation to further lifecycle sustainment, acquisitions, and capability development needs strategies 
for materiel product development. Coordinate with AFMRA/SG4 or DHA MEDLOG offices to 
leverage procurement and sustainment strategies for materiel product development.
3.1.6.7. Manage AFMS Innovation Program, including the development of and implementation of the 
division’s innovation strategies in concert with Government stakeholders. Interface with internal and 
external Government and Industry stakeholders towards the execution of bringing forth innovative 
research that support capabilities required by the AFMS/warfighter. Establish relationships with interand intra-agency partners (i.e., AFWERX, SBIR/STTR programs, etc.), and partner with innovation 
transition stakeholders across the RD&A, Logistics, and end-user communities.
3.1.6.8. Maintain coordination with 711 HPW including, attend coordination and review meetings 
(i.e., MAL, CDWG, Space Consortium, ABC, etc.); keep the SG5 Division Chief, SG5L-S Branch 
Chief, and HAF/SG Chief Scientist apprised of portfolio progress; and maintain sufficient 
programmatic understanding to contribute to AFMS Requirements Solution Pathway Decision 
discussions and AFMS DHP portfolio PPBE planning. 
3.1.6.9. Maintain coordination with Joint R&D programs including attendance at In-Progress 
Reviews (IPR) and Review and Analysis (R&A) meetings. Assist with preparing the SG5 Division 
Chief and HAF/SG Chief Scientist for Joint executive forums; and maintain sufficient programmatic 
understanding to contribute to AFMS Requirements Solution Pathway Decision discussions and 
AFMS DHP portfolio PPBE planning. 
3.1.6.10. Assist government with planning, tracking, and submission of RDT&E financial planning 
and execution via document preparation for Program Objective Memorandum (POM) cycles and 
within year-of-execution budget and execution activities, as well as obligation and expenditure rates 
and reporting activities.
3.1.6.11. Maintain relationships with primary stakeholders, assist with development, tracking and 
updates to interagency agreements and other partnership mechanisms and events.
3.1.6.12. Provide monthly status report NLT the 5th of the month for the preceding month to the 
COR IAW CDRL A003 and corresponding DID. 
3.2. Minimum Qualifications: The Contractor shall provide personnel with the minimum 
qualifications listed below:
3.2.1. TASK I – EXECUTIVE ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT.
3.2.1.1. The Contractor shall have an associate degree in science such as communication, business 
management or administration, or related degree. 
3.2.1.2. The contractor shall have a minimum of 4 years of related work experience in preparing and 
editing executive documents. 
3.2.1.3. The contractor shall have a minimum of 4 years of related work experience in working with 
senior level DoD, other federal government agencies, or private sector companies. 
3.2.1.4. Skilled in verbal and written communication.
3.2.1.5. Knowledgeable in software applications to include MS-Office and SharePoint.

3.2.1.6. Proficient in coordinating video and audio conference calls and maintaining webpages and 
databases.
3.2.1.7. Experience with working with TMT and the DTS. The Contractor must complete DTS, TMT 
and Action Officer (AO) training within 60 calendar days (or next available class) of start date.
3.2.1.8. Must have an active favorable Tier I (T1).
3.2.2. TASK II - REQUIREMENTS ANALYST MANAGEMENT SUPPORT (CLASSIFIED).
3.2.2.1. The three Mid-Level position shall have a bachelor's degree in sciences such as business 
administration, business management, project management, information technology, healthcare 
management, logistics, acquisition, or Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) 
related field and 5 years of work-related experience in requirements development, lifecycle 
coordination, or acquisition.
3.2.2.2. The one Senior-Level position shall have a bachelor's degree in sciences such as business 
administration, business management, project management, information technology, healthcare 
management, logistics, acquisition, or STEM related field and 8 years of work-related experience
requirements development, lifecycle coordination, or acquisition.
3.2.2.3. Proficient computer skills, including MS-Office and Share Point required.
3.2.2.4. Excellent oral and written communication skills; experience briefing senior leaders and the 
ability to interface with all levels of personnel; experience writing technical documentation, operating 
instructions, policy memorandums, concept of operations and capabilities development documents.
3.2.2.5. Ability to communicate effectively with senior government and non-government personnel.
3.2.2.6. Experience in developing analytical framework for analysis and leading/facilitating teams or 
studies, IPTs, and HPTs.
3.2.2.7. Familiarity with JCIDS and DoD requirements generation process or RMCT. If not already 
certified, required online training must be completed within 60 calendar days of in-processing.
3.2.2.8. Must have an active favorable Tier 3 (T3).
3.2.3. TASK III –TRAINING AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
3.2.3.1. Training Specialist III-Falls Church, VA.
3.2.3.1.1. The contractor shall have a bachelor's degree in Management, Education, or Information 
Technology.
3.2.3.1.2. Three years of relevant experience in training and administrative support.
3.2.3.1.3. Three years in training development/tracking.
3.2.3.1.4. Must communicate effectively with senior government and non-government personnel.
3.2.3.1.5. Must have an active favorableT1.
3.2.3.2. Training Administrator-Falls Church, VA.
3.2.3.2.1. The contractor shall have an associate degree in Administration, Management, Education, 
Information Technology or similar degree.
3.2.3.2.2. Three years of related work experience in facilitating audio/visual conferencing and 
training development/tracking.
3.2.3.2.3. Must communicate effectively with senior government and non-government personnel.
3.2.3.2.4. Must have an active favorableT1.
3.2.4. TASK IV –COST ANALYSIS SERVICE SUPPORT.

3.2.4.1. The contractor shall have a bachelor's degree in science such as Finance, Accounting, 
Statistics, or related discipline.
3.2.4.2. The one Mid-Level position shall have 4 years’ experience in the financial analysis and 
competency in the two or more of following analyses: ROI, ROM, WBS, BCA, LCC, CAIV, AoA, 
cost benefit/cost risk analysis, affordability/supportability analysis.
3.2.4.3. The one Senior-level position must have 8 years’ experience in the financial analysis and 
competency in the two or more of following analyses: ROI, ROM, WBS, BCA, LCC, CAIV, AoA, 
cost benefit/cost risk analysis, affordability/supportability analysis.
3.2.4.4. Proficient in MS Office applications and MS Project Software.
3.2.4.5. Excellent interpersonal skills: ability to work independently, and as a team member; ability to 
establish a network of contacts.
3.2.4.6. Excellent oral and written communication skills; experience briefing senior leaders and the 
ability to interface with all levels of personnel; experience writing technical documentation, operating 
instructions, policy memorandums, concept of operations or capabilities development documents.
3.2.4.7. Must demonstrate the ability to meet the requirements of this PWS section 3.2.5. without 
further training, except for familiarization of policies and procedures that govern the Air Force Medical 
Service.
3.2.4.8. Prior cost analysis experience in support of DoD acquisition programs.
3.2.4.9. Must have an active favorable T1