5.0 SPECIFIC TASKS AND DELIVERABLES
The Contractor shall perform the following:
5.1 PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.1.1 CONTRACTOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLAN
The Contractor shall deliver a Contractor Project Management Plan (CPMP) that lays 
out the Contractor’s approach, timeline and tools to be used in execution of this TO
effort. The CPMP should take the form of both a narrative and graphic format that 
displays the schedule, milestones, risks and resource support. The CPMP shall also 
include how the Contractor shall coordinate and execute planned, routine, and ad hoc

data collection reporting requests as identified within the PWS. The initial baseline 
CPMP shall be concurred upon and updated in accordance with Section B of the TO. 
The Contractor shall provide monthly updates to maintain the VA Program Manager 
(PM) approved CPMP throughout the PoP.
Deliverable: 
A. Contractor Project Management Plan
5.1.2 PRIVACY & HIPAA TRAINING
The Contractor shall submit TMS training certificates of completion for VA Privacy and 
Information Security Awareness and Rules of Behavior, Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA) training, Role Based Training dependent on standard roles,
and provide signed copies of the Contractor Rules of Behavior in accordance with 
Section 9, Training, from Appendix C of the VA Handbook 6500.6, “Contract Security”.
Deliverables:
A. VA Privacy and Information Security Awareness and Rules of Behavior Training 
Certificate/Signed Contractor Rules of Behavior/VA HIPAA/Role Based Training
Certificates of Completion
5.1.3 TECHNICAL KICKOFF MEETING
A technical kickoff meeting shall be held within 10 days after TO award. The Contractor 
shall coordinate the date, time, and location (can be virtual) with the Contracting Officer 
(CO), as the Post-Award Conference Chairperson, the VA PM, as the Co-Chairperson, 
the Contract Specialist (CS), and the COR. The Contractor shall provide a draft agenda 
to the CO and VA PM at least five (5) calendar days prior to the meeting. Upon 
Government approval of a final agenda, the Contractor shall distribute to all meeting 
attendees. During the kickoff-meeting, the Contractor shall present, for review and 
approval by the Government, the details of the intended approach, work plan, and 
project schedule for each effort via a Microsoft Office PowerPoint presentation. At the 
conclusion of the meeting, the Contractor shall update the presentation with a final slide 
entitled “Summary Report” which shall include notes on any major issues, agreements, 
or disagreements discussed during the kickoff meeting and the following statement “As 
the Post-Award Conference Chairperson, I have reviewed the entirety of this 
presentation and assert that it is an accurate representation and summary of the 
discussions held during the Technical Kickoff Meeting for the VA IT Campus Operations 
and Support Services.” The Contractor shall submit the final updated presentation to 
the CO for review and signature within three (3) calendar days after the meeting. The 
Contractor shall also work with the CS, the Government’s designated note taker, to 
prepare and distribute the meeting minutes of the kickoff meeting to the CO, COR and 
all attendees within three (3) calendar days after the meeting. The Contractor shall 
obtain concurrence from the CS on the content of the meeting minutes prior to 
distribution of the document.

5.2 VA IT CAMPUS WEB-SERVICES ENVIRONMENT PLATFORM SUPPORT 
The Contractor shall operate and support production and pre-production VA IT Campus
sub-environments. Contractor shall provide at minimum three (3) full time equivalents
for the requirements of PWS Section 
5.2 effort inclusive of sub-sections 
5.2.1 and 
5.2.2. 
5.2.1 VA IT CAMPUS PLATFORM OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINMENT SUPPORT
The Contractor shall provide assistance and support for implementation, operation, 
Section 508 compliance (IAW Section 508 website: http://www.section508.gov), and 
minor changes of the VA IT Campus software infrastructure including website and 
associated databases and interfaces. The Contractor shall provide continuous 
availability of support during ITWD core business hours, 8:00 am through 5:00 pm EST, 
Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays, for the requirements outlined 
below. The Contractor shall:
1. Perform daily scheduled and ad hoc Internet Information Services (IIS) 
administrator and maintenance services to include:
a. Using a Serverless architecture, support the distribution of client-side webbased code via AWS S3, CloudFront, etc.
b. Operation and administration of Application Deployment technologies for 
both Pre-Production and Production sub-environments
c. Operation and administration of Web Content Management Systems; 
maintenance and monitoring of all AWS related services to ensure 
acceptable user performance and availability; perform troubleshooting and 
provide responses to all system service-related application issues
d. Operation and administration of application performance and maintenance 
monitoring in regard to SaaS applications, storage, content streaming.
e. Perform application troubleshooting for defect resolution and apply 
manufacturer-recommended and VA-approved remediation as needed.
f. Create and configure Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) Security Certificates 
g. Monitor, troubleshoot, and remediate issues during all live studio events
2. Perform daily scheduled and ad hoc system administration and maintenance of
services (i.e., Cloudfront; DynamoDB; H.264/Advanced Video Coding; H265; 
HTML5) to include:
a. Troubleshoot hang/crash issues
b. Configure cross-domain hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) streaming
c. Performance tuning
d. Monitor, troubleshoot, and remediate issues during all live studio events
3. Perform daily scheduled and ad hoc database administration and maintenance 
services to include:
a. Design, develop, implement, and modify database instances for the Test 
and Production environments
b. Monitor and maintain database security and database software
c. Database application query and performance tuning

d. Database replication and recovery
e. Creation of database objects and stored procedures based on VAprovided requirements, such as creating stored queries for weekly 
administrator reports
f. Coordinate and implement database/schema changes to subenvironments (Test and Production) based on VA-provided requirements, 
such as adding data fields to the database
g. Monitor/manage space usage; perform capacity planning
h. Monitor, troubleshoot, and remediate issues during all live studio events
i. Develop and modify database queries based on VA-provided 
requirements, such as creation of ad-hoc queries for one (1)-time 
administrator reports
j. Develop and run daily course completion queries to record credits earned 
by users from the VA IT Campus in the VA Talent Management System 
(TMS) via an Application Programing Interface (API). If a flat file approach 
is used, this flat file shall be formatted as approved by TMS 
administrators. 
k. Perform database application troubleshooting to resolve defects in support 
of Application Operations
4. Perform daily scheduled and ad hoc Web and Graphics development and 
maintenance services to include:
a. Design, develop and test screen layouts, graphical user interfaces (GUI), 
reports, and interfaces based on VA-provided requirements, such as 
moving a screen icon to a different location
b. Perform testing and analysis on applications and systems to identify and 
resolve problems
c. Design, configure, and modify cloud-based, fully serverless-architected, 
web-based applications using HTML5, JavaScript, Angular, Vue + Nuxt, 
JWPLAYER (or other comparable player), Node.JS, WebSockets, AWS 
Lambda, AWS API Gateway, AWS Fargate, AWS Aurora RDS MySQL 
Serverless, AWS DynamoDB, AWS MediaLive, AWS S3, AWS 
CloudFront, AWS AI Transcribe - and which is based on VA-provided 
product requirements, and which meets the requirements for federal 
government IT systems, such as Federal Risk and Authorization 
Management Program (FedRAMP), Federal Information Security 
Management Act (FISMA), National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) 800-53, Section 508, etc.
d. Monitor, troubleshoot, and remediate issues during all live studio events
e. Ensure all functionality is available through desktop and mobile users, 
using standard mobile devices, smart phones and tablets (e.g.,
Blackberry, Android and Apple devices)
5. Administer AWS cloud-based hosting services within the VA Enterprise Cloud 
(VAEC) owned instance that meets FedRAMP requirements for standardized 
security controls and assessments of cloud products and services (VA 
Directive 6517, “Cloud Computing Services”), to administer all platform 

elements of the VA IT Campus including all infrastructures to develop, test, 
implement, and support the web-services and manage storage for on-demand 
courses. The Contractor must adhere to the FedRAMP requirements at a 
FISMA Moderate Risk Level (SeeFISMA references) which shall be 
maintained throughout the Period of Performance. 
6. Comply with VA Security Standards and Assessments and shall remediate 
deficiencies noted during assessments in accordance with VA Directives 
6500 and 6517. The hosting platform shall be accessible to end users on the 
VA network and the public internet. The internet domain 
(VAITCAMPUS.COM) is owned by VA. If future VA directives require it, the 
Contractor shall assist with transitioning the online platform to a .GOV 
platform. 
 
7. Maintain and update the infrastructure to ensure the Authority to Operate 
(ATO) for the hosting solution isn’t compromised and shall create all 
necessary artifacts required for continued certification. The Contractor shall 
facilitate the ATO process by remediating all deficiencies found during the 
ATO approval process that are not in compliance with VA Directives 6102, 
6500, and 6500.3. 
8. Manage the Cloud environment for the VA IT Campus, broken down into four 
(4) distinct sub-environments: 
a. Production environment 
b. Pre-Production environment including a Testing environment 
c. Development environment 
d. Accreditation environment 
The hosting environment shall be a unique, separate, and isolated instance 
within the AWS environment, but can be contained within the same Cloud 
environment as Pre-Production, Accreditation, and Development, as long as 
the Cloud environment is not shared with any other customer, (whether 
Government or commercial) and not a shared hosted environment with any 
other supported customer element. 
 
9. Maintain a Production sub-environment that supports the following: 
a. Storage and on-demand streaming for up to 500 recorded sessions 
annually at an average of 500 Mega Bytes (MBs) per recorded session 
package. 
b. The ability to support up to 20,000 live event concurrent users and 
connections through the web interface, for training, meeting or 
conference sessions. 
VA IT Campus Operations and Support Services
VA-23-00081690
Page 12 of 37
10.Maintain the Pre-Production environment to support up to 30 concurrent 
users, for testing purposes but should otherwise mirror the Production subenvironment described above.
11.Support 24 hours per day / seven (7) days per week / 365 days per year 
(24/7/365) streaming capability of on-demand recorded content. Notes: 
Streaming bandwidth to the user is approximately 500 Kb/s for desktops and 
900 Kb/s for mobile devices.
 
12.Support live content delivery times of 8:00 AM through 5:00 PM Eastern 
Standard Time (EST), Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays. 
The Government estimates approximately 40, 60-to-90-minute live sessions 
per month total for each instance. 
13.In addition to permissions-based user access, occasional open public 
broadcasts are required. The Contractor shall provide public 
broadcast/webcast capabilities when approved by COR and Program 
Manager (VA PM will obtain VA approvals to ensure compliance with VA 
security operations). 
5.2.2 VA IT CAMPUS WEB-SERVICES ENVIRONMENT PLATFORM SUSTAINMENT 
SUPPORT
The Contractor shall develop and implement emergency fixes, program/site 
enhancements, and minor changes to the VA IT Campus application on a quarterly 
basis, based on requirements from, and approved by, the COR, utilizing an Agile 
software methodology. All approved emergency fixes, program/site enhancements, and 
minor changes shall be tested by VA end users and Contractor staff for proper 
functionality and for Section 508 compliance (IAW Section 508 website: 
http://www.section508.gov) in the Test sub-environment before being promoted in 
releases to the Production sub-environment. The Contractor shall provide a 
Release/Change Management Plan to the COR which is required to contain release 
control procedures and processes to report and track all defects, fixes, and changes for 
each release, as well as ensure quarterly releases at a minimum. The Contractor shall 
provide a configuration control process tool to automate Release/Change Management 
procedures and tracking. The Contractor shall organize and conduct a per sprint Virtual 
Environment Change Control Board (CCB) meeting with Government representatives 
for VA-required and minor recommended system changes and provide meeting minutes 
within five (5) calendar days after the meeting. The Contractor shall develop Software 
Release Notes for every release including a list of requirements, changes and 
defects/fixes for each release delivered, when the request to promote releases to 
production is COR approved.


The Contractor shall maintain the Cloud Hosting Production sub-environment to assure 
95% availability for end users (excluding external network related failures/problems). 
The Contractor shall report the VA IT Campus environment availability in the 
Contractor’s Progress, Status and Management Quarterly Report (CPSMR).
The Contractor shall develop all VA IT Campus emergency fixes, program/site 
enhancements, and minor changes to be compatible with all existing VA IT Campus
system software infrastructures. The VA IT Campus shall be maintained in a manner 
that it can be integrated into a Government Cloud host provider in the event the solution 
is migrated in the future. The Contractor shall perform backups of all VA IT Campus
Environment software infrastructures to include website and associated databases
monthly, and again at each software release, to a Contractor-provided repository, and
provide rollback capability of data. The Contractor shall provide Backup Data (including 
on-demand library courses) to the COR quarterly via digital delivery to VA storage 
location. All Software Code shall be provided in the production format and as a text 
document. Any additional software developed under this TO is the property of VA. The 
Contractor shall use VA accepted applications and all reporting and sharing of 
information shall be in Microsoft (MS) Office format.
The Contractor shall implement the VA IT Campus environments into the PreProduction sub-environments and perform integration and user testing, including 
functional and operational testing of the VA IT Campus environments. The Contractor 
shall provide a Test Plan that includes system requirements/configuration, testing 
procedures for VA users and VA administrators, expected results to test cases that map 
to all requirements, and procedures to document findings denoting severity and priority. 
Additionally, the Contractor shall test to ensure that the VA IT Campus application 
accepts the signals emanating from the Main Production Studios at both respective 
locations, is accessible from an outside internet connection, and that all aspects of the 
VA IT Campus are operating correctly. The Test Plan shall be provided to the COR for 
review and approval, and testing shall not begin until the Test Plan is approved by the 
COR. 
The Contractor shall provide a Test Reportdocumenting results of tests to the COR. 
The Test Report shall include a list of known issues found during testing identified by 
severity and method to remediate. The Contractor shall correct all identified defects, 
within five (5) days of notification from the COR, to proceed with corrections. If 
remediation will take longer than five (5) days, this shall be coordinated and approved 
by the COR. A successful test is when all defects have been remediated, and the 
system is able to provide media seamlessly. 
The Contractor shall develop, implement, and test quarterly software releases for all 
approved changes. Each quarterly release may consist of up to 10 Low Level of Effort 
(LOE) changes, five (5) Medium LOE changes, and three (3) High LOE changes. 


The types of changes that are required during performance have been further defined 
below. 
The complexity of the LOE required for each change shall be determined during the 
monthly Virtual Environment CCB meeting through collaborative review and agreement 
between COR and the Contractor. Selected changes shall be approved by the COR 
prior to commencing. LOE examples are set forth below.
Note: Items listed in the three (3) levels below are examples of previous items produced 
for this tasking. They are not specific requirements for this task order.
1. Examples of Low LOE changes are:
a. Develop a feature that allows end users to turn on or off the open/closed 
captioning features on all live and recorded events; this feature shall be 
incorporated as a navigation button to allow end users to turn it on and off 
and not have to leave an event.
b. Develop a note feature to allow end users to take notes during events and file 
them in a user’s “My Office” repository.
c. Develop a “virtual” business card that end users can customize (name, email, 
phone number, organization, job title, etc.) and exchange with other end 
users when logged into the VA IT Campus.
2. Examples of Medium LOE changes are:
a. Develop the capability for VA IT Campus Environment administrators to 
generate both automatic and manual HTML email notifications to end users 
for site announcements and updates. All automatic emails shall be generated 
from an administrative account with permissions granted to VA administrators
and Contract administrators. Events driving automatic HTML email 
notifications include user training registration, user password reset/reminder, 
initiate user-to-user dialogue, business card forwarding. Events driving 
manual HTML notifications include administrative communications to end
users. All automatic email configuration parameters shall be able to be 
updated through the Content Management System (CMS) tool for users with 
the appropriate level of access.
b. Develop/maintain an on-demand library that allows end users to view ondemand presentations, multimedia, resource links, posters, communications, 
and links to external courses. The on-demand library shall include a listing of 
recorded events for end users to watch at their convenience, a document 
repository where end users can search for documents (posters, 
communications, course downloads, etc.) by topic or keywords (e.g., 
associated with their job), and an area where additional information (links to 
websites, external documents, etc.) can be shared to end users. Note: A 
comprehensive search engine shall be built into the system to provide a 
learner friendly search feature where all on-demand content (videos, 
documents, etc.) can be searched from one screen. On-demand content 
shall support MS Office and Adobe file formats, HTML, and the following 

video containers: Moving Picture Experts Group-4 compression (MP4), Third 
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), and WebM. All end users shall have 
read-only access to the on-demand library and all content therein.
3. VA IT Campus Examples of High LOE changes are:
a. Develop an Exhibit and Networking Directory for end users to network with 
other end users, share business cards, discuss topics and talk/chat with 
presenters or offices on specific topics or areas. End users shall have the 
ability to ask questions and get immediate responses or have questions 
emailed to experts, send their electronic business card or end user’s contact 
information (name, organization, email address, phone number) to other end 
users. 
b. Develop three (3) separate areas within the virtual environment that can 
handle Conferences, Training, and Meetings respectively, accessible to the 
user from the website landing page. Each virtual environment shall display a 
graphical representation to the user based on event type, based on VAprovided requirements approved by VA.
The Contractor shall conduct a functional and operational test of the VA IT Campus
application at each software release, in the Test sub-environment, before requesting 
User Acceptance Test (UAT) for each release. The Contractor shall ensure that all 
learner interfaces shall remain Section 508 compliant prior to implementing software 
release updates and changes in the Production sub-environment.
The Contractor shall develop and provide a VA UAT Plan to the COR for each software 
release with testing procedures for VA users and VA administrators. The UAT Plan shall 
include testing procedures and expected results (test cases) to test all requirements and 
functionality for each release, procedures to document findings, (severity and priorities), 
system requirements/configuration, and a list of known issues found during testing 
performed by the Contractor prior to VA-performed UAT. 
The Contractor shall provide a Test Report to the COR for each software release which 
includes the summary results of VA and Contractor UAT, test findings for all test cases 
and test variance. The Test Report shall include a list of known issues found during 
testing performed by the Contractor prior to VA-performed UAT as well as issues 
identified during UAT. The Contractor shall correct all defects and issues found during 
Contractor-performed testing or UAT, within five (5) working days.
The Contractor shall provide a Cloud Hosting Services Description Document for all 
cloud services implemented in the pre-production sub-environments, and all standards 
necessary to maintain and support the infrastructures to include database requirements, 
mail server, domain, bandwidth requirements, data storage and other capability deemed 
necessary by the Contractor. 


The Contractor shall provide an Environment Validation Report that documents 
verification that all technical, functional, operational, and security requirements have 
been met for the sub-environments. The following elements shall be included in the 
Environment Validation Report: 
1. Technical: Web-services, package storage and Virtual Machine configurations 
and integration 
2. Functional: Validation of PWS Functional Requirements 
3. Operational: Validation of the resource capacity 
4. Security: Develop a Plan of Action and Milestones for mitigating identified 
security findings and vulnerabilities identified during Assessment and 
Authorization (A&A) activities. 
After COR review of the Environment Validation Report, the Contractor shall 
address/resolve COR comments and deliver a final Environment Validation Report…
Deliverables:
A. Release / Change Management Plan
B. Software Release Notes
C. Backup Data
D. Software Code
E. Test Plan
F. User Acceptance Test (UAT) Plan
G. Test Report
H. VA IT Campus Cloud Hosting Services Description Document 
I. Environment Validation Report
5.2.3 USER ONLINE SUPPORT TOOL
The Contractor shall conduct quarterly reviews of the current User On-line (Help) 
Support Tool, provide recommendations for improvements to the tool to COR during the 
monthly Virtual Environment CCB meetings, to obtain COR approval of any 
modifications prior to implementation of any changes. The Contractor shall incorporate 
COR approved emergency fixes and modifications into the updates. All COR approved 
emergency fixes and modifications made will be documented in the Software Release 
Notes, required under Section 5.3.2. Online tools shall provide end users with the 
procedures and “how to” for using all the functions in the VA IT Campus. Thereafter, the 
Contractor shall update the User Online Support Tool with applicable changes effected 
by software releases.
Deliverables:
A. User Online Support Tool

5.3 VA IT CAMPUS SYSTEM DOCUMENTATION 
The Contractor shall validate and provide input for all existing documentation, which will 
be provided by the COR, for VA IT Campus production and pre-production subenvironments. The Contractor shall only use VA approved templates and formats.
5.3.1 SYSTEM DESCRIPTION DOCUMENTATION
The Contractor shall provide a System Update Manual Memo that identifies, provides
updated information and outlines all components of the VA IT Campus configurations
that are changed for VA staff to modify the System Description Document (Attachment 
A) that includes the systems configuration, functionality, flows and specifications. This 
shall include all aspects and functions of the VA IT Campus requirements in accordance 
with PWS 5.3 and includes: System overview, platform connections (i.e., how the 
website communicates with the databases), GUI, and the Government owned Studio 
hardware and software interfaces. 
Deliverables:
