1. Background
Recent advances in biomedical and health sciences—from immunotherapy to treat 
cancer, to the highly effective COVID-19 vaccines—demonstrate the strengths and 
successes of the U.S. biomedical enterprise. Such advances present an opportunity to 
revolutionize how to prevent, treat, and even cure a range of diseases including cancer, 
infectious diseases, Alzheimer’s disease, and many others that together affect a 
significant number of Americans.
To improve the U.S. Government’s capabilities to speed research that can improve the 
health of all Americans, the White House has created the Advanced Research Projects 
Agency for Health (ARPA-H). Included in the President’s FY2022 budget was a 
component of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) with a funding level of $1B 
available for three years. ARPA-H will be tasked with building high-risk, high-reward 
capabilities (or platforms) to drive biomedical breakthroughs—ranging from molecular 
to societal—that would provide transformative solutions for all patients.
Congress has funded the Advanced Research Project Agency (Health) which is led as an 
initiative by the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). ARPA-H is viewed 
as an approach to support quick scientific research in the biomedical arena and is an 
agency within the Department of Human and Health Services (HHS).
During the rapid start of ARPA-H, CIT services were leveraged, such as the 
ServiceNow instance for incident management, while relying on other service area 
capabilities provided by CIT (e.g., NIH network, Identity and Access Management 
(IAM) Facilities, and STRIDES, etc.) as well as other critical administrative services
(e.g., Acquisitions/Contracting, Financial Management, HR, onboarding, Property 
Management, etc.) and Technology Management and Customer Support (Helpdesk, 
Training, etc.).
As ARPA-H continues to mature as an organization, ARPA-H and NIH executives want 
to ensure that ARPA-H can develop a full range of IT services, systems or capabilities, 
equipment, and technical support that is specific to performing the mission of ARPA-H
as an independent organization. Over time ARPA-H will in some cases necessitate a 
move away from some CIT provided services to tools and services that better fit the 
unique mission of the agency.
It is expected that ARPA-H, having its beginnings as a start-up federal agency, will grow 
exponentially in size (personnel, facility, and equipment) as research projects are added. 
As it does, the service delivery architecture will diverge from CIT’s support and the 
ARPA-H Information Technology (IT) will increasingly become a stand-alone 
environment. This document seeks to establish the initial Scope of IT Services and 
means for creating a baseline of services to support the agency’s mission. The 
Contractor understands and agrees that over time ARPA-H may require different 
approaches for its support
2. ARPA-H Assumptions
ARPA-H requires the continued support of an outside vendor to provide a full range of IT 
support, including but not limited to, service desk and desktop support, and IT design, 
development, and implementation, starting with its initiation and as it continually evolves. IT 
support services may require an initial start-up or may require transition related activities from 
current providers and will require knowledge of the various sources of associated services (i.e., 
CIT provided service such as the NIH administrative Applications, NIH Network, Identity 
Access Management, Facilities, STRIDES, Biowulf, etc.). As a new agency, ARPA-H will take 
the opportunity to be take a “cloud first” approach to all aspects of IT services. For example, the 
agency does not intend to establish a network infrastructure or data centers but instead rely on 
cloud-based services securely accessed from and supporting end user devices.
This is a non-personal services, ARPA-H will provide the Government management and 
technical oversight of ARPA-H Contractors, but will work closely with CIT’s existing service 
support environment. Decisions concerning technical directions, budgets and commitments by 
the Government will, at all times, remain with the Government.
The Contractor shall offer the ability to scale its support resources to meet projected support,
growth, and surge support activities or to decrease resources as projects complete.
ARPA-H expects to grow to a level of ~ 800-1000 ARPA-H federal and contractor personnel in a 
virtual nation-wide footprint (tentatively to include the DC Metro-Area, and two other sites),
which includes ~210 Government personnel requiring executive level support. Currently ARPAH has approximately 70 federal staff supported by 290 contractors and Presidential Innovation 
Fellows. These numbers are growing daily, and it is anticipated that the agency will be at a full 
complement of staff within the next six (6) months to a year.
3. ARPA-H Technology Principles
The following principles are core to the delivery of services within the ARPA-H Office of 
Technology and Data. They will serve as the playbook for this Contractor to deliver and 
Contractors are expected to provide evidence of past performance aligned with these principles 
in their proposals:
• Be Customer-Centric: IT isn’t a castle – it exists to enable the agency. Our job is to get 
ARPA-Hers the tools they need to do their jobs. We find a way to “get to yes” and don’t 
pass costs on to other parts of the agency.
• Rapid, Iterative Approach: You won’t get it perfect the first time. Get capabilities into 
users’ hands as quickly as possible and iterate from there. Speed and data are more 
important than consensus.
• Build with the Future in Mind: Don’t pigeonhole capabilities. The resulting technology 
and data should be re-usable by future entities and people whenever possible.
• Manage Risk: Adopt a risk-based approach to managing IT. Consider the overall 
sensitivity of the data and systems to make informed decisions to accept risk.
• Economies of Scale: ARPA-H doesn’t have to do it all. Strategically utilize NIH/CIT to 
provide IT support. Think creatively about talent; using detailed personnel and SETAs to 
maximize flexibility and minimize footprint.
• Buy it, don’t Build it: Buy it, where possible. Buy FedRAMP Authorized SaaS, PaaS, 
IaaS first and in that order to move fast and simplify compliance.
4. Program/Project Management – Task Area 1 (Labor Hour (LH))
4.1. ARPA-H Organizational Stand-up
The Contractor shall be responsible for standing up a new organization with full operational 
responsibilities and ongoing projects, as described below. These responsibilities shall 
include, but are not limited to planning, budgeting, service management and delivery, and 
programmatic functions (e.g., Performance Management, Contract Management – including 
financials, Human Resource Management, Quality Assurance, etc.) necessary to establish all 
logistical and technical operations needed by ARPA-H.
ARPA-H is a new organization requiring Information Technology (IT) infrastructure and 
support services. At present, most IT infrastructure and support are being provided from 
National Institute of Health (NIH) Center for Information Technology (CIT) but will be 
converted, transitioned, or newly acquired for ARPA-H, as appropriate and justified by 
relevant business cases. ARPA-H seeks to develop its own systems through a series of 
controlled implementations and will retain complete control over IT decisions for 
architecture, operations, processes, and security.
While ARPA-H will retain control of IT decision the Contractor shall be responsible for and 
produce a plan that addresses steps / phases for design, development, and implementation; 
time management; controls for managing cost, schedule, risk; and identifying any 
requirements that might be placed upon Government or other parties.
The implementation and Phase-In period shall occur over a three-year period with 
designs and controls being emphasized in the first year, stabilization phase by year 2, 
and enhancements phase by year 3.
During these phases, the Contractor shall plan and manage all planning and operational 
activities necessary to establish a documented environment that can be transitioned from the 
existing service provider to a competitively awarded contracts or contracts. Immediately 
after the notice to commence work, the Contractor shall perform due diligence through 
inventory of all ARPA-H plans for growth, planned assets, system configuration 
The information, current operations, security controls, and system documentation. 
Contractor shall document and provide findings to the Government in an Implementation 
and Phase-In Plan (IPIP) that addresses the three (3) Phases indicated above. The IPIP shall 
include what has been accomplished related to the current environment and plans for a 
future state indicating the steps and funds needed to accomplish the future state. The
implementation aspects of the IPIP shall assume service responsibility within a ninety-day 
(90-day) transition timeframe, upon which the Contractor shall have full responsibility for 
operational, technical and financial performance.
Objectives for implementation include:
• Establishment of new services and transfer of existing services,
• No break in current service levels,
• No delay in support for new and ongoing projects, 
• Development and refinement of automated and semi-automated business processes,
• Support of two (2) communication channels with ARPA-H personnel, the first for 
immediate help-desk requests and the second for strategic technical requests (such as the 
establishment of a new technical workflow),
• Ability to support ARPA-H personnel during a rapid on-boarding, and 
• Rapid creation of Institutional controls and procedures.
During the phase-in period, the Contractor shall organize, plan, and recruit personnel for 
remaining outstanding positions as well as mobilize resources, develop procedures, and 
accomplish all actions necessary to commence full performance of the services at the end of 
the transition period.
During the Phase-In/Stand-Up period, the Contractor shall: 
1) Establish project management procedures and establish, maintain, and review 
Standard Operating Procedures1 (SOPs),
2) Recruit, hire, and on-board necessary, and appropriately qualified personnel,
3) Attend post-award meetings as required, and
4) Create SOPs for each functional area covered under this Statement of Work (SOW).
Content may include Quality Control (QC), work assignments, approval authorities, 
workflow, functional relationships between the Government and the Contractor, 
functional relationships between the Contractors’ organizational elements (including 
subcontractors), and any other information needed for efficient and uniform 
performance.
Deliverables
a) Draft Implementation and Phase-In Plan (IPIP) (as proposed by the 
Contractor in the response to the SOW)
b) Final Implementation and Phase-In Plan (IPIP) (as accepted by the 
Government, 60 days after contract award)
c) Resource Plan and Reporting Process
d) Architectural design for the IT infrastructure, 60 days after contract award
e) Weekly status reports for each program/task area
f) SOPs for each functional area
g) Ongoing updates to SOPs
h) Ad-hoc business cases
The Contractors shall provide a statement of assumption of Full Operational 
Capability (FOC) upon completion of the 90-day assumption period.
The Contractors shall provide a statement of assumption of Full Operational 
Capability (FOC) upon completion of the 90-day assumption period.
4.2. Key Personnel
At a minimum, ARPA-H expects the following roles to be associated with key personnel:
• Program Manager
• Deputy Program Manager
• Service Desk Manager
• Deskside Support Manager
• Project Manager PMO-Lead
• Security Engineer-Lead
• Desktop Engineering-Lead
• Identity & Access Management-Lead
• Solution Architect-Lead

4.3. Disengagement
Toward the end of the Contract term, the Contractor may be required to support a successor 
Contractor, see FAR 52.237-3 Continuity of Services. In addition, during contract 
performance the Government’s needs or requirements could potentially alter the support 
efforts required by this contract. The Contractor shall cooperate to affect an effective, 
orderly and efficient Transition-Out to any such successor Contractor during a Transition 
period which will be specified by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall be required 
to phase out the existing contract, turning over total contract control to the new Contractor 
in a well-organized, systematic, and planned manner. The incumbent Contractor shall meet 
as necessary with the new Contractor. All Contractor personnel shall support the efforts 
established by the Transition Team. Both Contractors shall develop a joint Transition Plan of 
critical areas to be satisfied, that will be initialed and dated by both parties.
During the period of performance, the Contractor shall only use Government furnished electronic 
communications vehicles to conduct the activities in this Statement of Work. Approved 
communication vehicles include Government furnished e-mail accounts with a .gov address, 
approved Government provided and operated online storage platforms such as Max.gov, 
SharePoint Online, Box.com, Microsoft OneDrive or Google Workspaces that utilize 
Government managed identity and access management tools. Contractors shall not use corporate 
e-mail accounts, personal e-mail accounts, corporate or personal online storage platforms or 
other corporate or personally owned mechanisms to conduct the activities in this SOW.
4.4. Program Management
In the performance of Task Area 1, the Contractor shall effectively and efficiently – as 
demonstrated through its reporting – manage cost, schedule, and performance using 
integrated program management processes across all aspects of performance and in a 
manner that yields cost savings and/or performance efficiencies throughout the execution of 
all work assignments issued under this SOW.
Independently, and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor shall furnish all the 
necessary services, qualified personnel, material, equipment, and facilities, not otherwise 
provided by the Government, as needed to perform individual task assignments in the Task 
Areas specified that follow in sections below.The ARPA-H Program Management Office (PMO) requires the use of systematic program 
and project management methodologies accompanying all IT support activities. The 
methodologies shall use frameworks based on Industry Standards (e.g., Project Management 
Institute (PMI)) and frameworks for project management. The Contractor shall maintain 
data and information that relates technical components of infrastructure with business 
requirements. Business management and reporting shall focus project activities and their 
impact on budgeted work, planning and control, overall performance, and conformance to 
contractual requirements. The technical component shall focus on areas such as data 
gathering, requirements definition; technical design; development; testing, installation, 
interoperability, operational support, maintenance, and management of software as 
Government assets.
The Contractor shall provide the day-to-day management of the project and deliver the 
means, methods, and resources to meet the Contract end point requirements and the 
intermediate requirements that the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) and/or 
Performance Monitor(s) determined are value-added and necessary to achieve project 
success. The following table identifies program management roles and responsibilities 
associated with the Administrative Support Services.
4.4.1. Subtask: Program Management
Performance of this contract and task requirements require interaction with a wide range of 
ARPA-H staff, Including the ARPA-H COR, ARPA-H leadership staff, ARPA-H
administrative management staff, ARPA-H IT technical and program/project management 
staff, other ARPA-H Contractors, and senior APRA-H managers and other stakeholders. The 
Contractor shall:
a) Appoint a Program Manager (PM) to serve as the Government’s single focal 
point, with the necessary authority to utilize the company’s resources to 
assure the work under work assignments issued under this SOW is 
accomplished consistent with technical, cost, and schedule requirements, as 
well as prudent programmatic management and risk mitigation. The 
Program Manager shall ensure all the work and projects are completed 
successfully and all services are delivered effectively, as measured by the 
customer satisfaction Service Level Agreement (SLA). The Contractor shall 
propose Service Level Measures and report against those measures for 
acceptance by the Government. The Government will review and provide 
approval of measurements and results.
b) Appoint a Deputy Program Manager position/role to serve as a back-up to 
the PM and assume that role anytime the PM is unavailable.
c) Provide planning, execution, control, and direction of prime Contractor 
employees and Subcontractor employees programmatic and technical work 
performed under work assignments, as defined in the Contractor’s work 
management plan (i.e., Program Management Plan).
d) Provide technical expertise and functional activities necessary for successful 
program management, as measured through the customer satisfaction SLA,of this SOW.
e) Provide the necessary centralized administrative, clerical, documentation 
and other related functions required to run a Program Management Office 
of this size and complexity.
f) Provide input and participate in Enterprise Information Resource 
Management decisions, Strategic Planning, FITARA review and update, 
compliance with Policies and Federal Regulations.
g) Provide no less than monthly contract status and financial reports (See 
Monthly Progress and Financial Reports – note this format will change as 
the needs of the Government change). Reports shall be detailed at the 
project level as specified per each task and shall include costs incurred to 
date and planned costs to project completion.
h) Conduct no less than monthly project and financial status meetings with 
Government PMO personnel or other functional staff.
i) Be available for legislative information requests, ad-hoc meetings or 
conference calls with Government personnel, as designated by the 
Government, at NIH or ARPA-H offices in Bethesda, Maryland, with as 
little as two (2) hours notifications to the Contractor. Every effort shall be 
made to schedule meetings at least 24 hours in advance.
j) Provide contract and task related data and information to IT personnel 
within 24 hours of request.
k) Meet with the COR and federal task lead(s) on a regular, as decided by the 
COR, Contractor, and stage of work activity, but no less than monthly, basis 
and provide verbal activity and financial status reports, including status of 
individual work assignments where relevant.
The Contractor will ensure that they have staff available to report onsite, as requested within 
a minimum of a two-hour timeframe on days when the Federal Government is open and 
operating; and that these staff members provide appropriate coverage onsite during the core 
business hours – 6am until 6pm weekdays. The number of onsite staff will be such that they 
can support the needed onsite work. The number of staff that are required to be onsite will 
be determined by the Government and may vary over time and by task area.
Program Management as described herein only applies to ARPA-H. The Contractor shall not 
function as a Program Management Office for other NIH Offices, Department’s, or NIH 
Institutes.
4.4.2. Subtask: Management of Task Assignments
The Contractor shall:
a) Employ an efficient use of technical skill and managerial oversight to 
control costs and meet all schedule requirements. Any anticipated cost or 
schedule overruns for LH, Project, or funded activities must be reported to 
the ARPA-H COR immediately.
b) Meet all deadlines and mitigate and manage risk to ensure successful 
project outcomes.
c) Maintain a Program Management Plan (provided with Proposal) which describes the Contractor’s overall management approach, communications 
plan, risk management approach and reporting, staffing and organizational 
resources plan, and management controls and reporting employed to meet 
cost, performance, and schedule requirements. 
d) For one-off projects the Contractor shall provide Integrated Project Plans
(IPP), showing adherence or impact to configuration and change 
management processes for all other schedules, milestones, and 
deliverables.
e) Hold weekly meetings, as required by ARPA-H, to keep the Government
informed about project activities and review progress toward goals or to 
refine strategy and tactics.
f) Provide, maintain, and update project plans, identifying critical path 
dependencies, major critical milestones, project deliverables, and tracking 
(e.g., project earned value if needed) for Projects and for ongoing Service 
Delivery.
g) The Government desires programmatic leadership, technical expertise, 
and capabilities for proactively identifying, promoting, implementing, and 
communicating the advancement of solution engineering and 
maintenance. As such, the Contractor is encouraged to:
• Provide a team of experienced resources that can fulfill a variety of 
activities ranging from subject matter disciplines and research to 
expertise and skills in planning and implementation.
• Provide flexibility in resources assigned. That is, where appropriate, 
maintain continuity through a permanent mix of senior-, mid-, and 
junior-level staff experienced in supporting requirements in an 
environment similar to the size and complexity of ARPA-H. 
However, as technologies change, ARPA-H expects that the 
Contractor will maintain alignment by adjusting permanent 
resources and/or providing ad-hoc expertise for projects and other 
short-term assignments.
• Establish continuous support and continuity through cross-training 
to ensure there are no impacts due to planned or unplanned staff 
changes.
• Be proactive in establishing and maintaining operational guides that 
document the ARPA-H organization, responsibilities, and processes 
that can be used to train resources, transfer knowledge, and create 
the basis for knowledge management.
• Replace, modify and/or add staffing resources as needed in a timely, 
professional, and consistent manner.
h) Provide Program Management Professional (PMP), or equivalent
experienced staff, for roles that include the management of the program or 
significant teams.
i) Provide Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), or 
equivalent experienced staff, for roles that include the management 
security posture of the program or significant teams.
j) Provide Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL), or 
equivalent, trained personnel k) Provide HDI, or equivalent, certified Service Desk staff.
4.4.3. Subtask: Quality Assurance Plan (QAP)
The Contractor is responsible for delivering high-quality work products within budget 
through effective project administration, efficiency, and cost containment.
The Contractor shall establish a Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) for the work to be 
performed under the contract. The QAP must address the following:
a. Who will be responsible for quality control during contract performance?
b. Who will be responsible for ensuring compliance with requirements?
c. Where will the quality control activities be performed?
d. When will the quality control activities be performed?
e. How will quality control inspections be performed and reported?
The final QAP shall be established by the Contractor within 30 days of contract award and 
quality control activities shall be documented. The QAP shall be reported to the COR and 
ARPA-H Program Manager monthly. The Government may use the Contractor’s QAP as the 
basis for the Government’s Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) or create its own 
after contract award. The QAP will be used by the Government to manage and evaluate the 
Contractor's performance for all task areas over the life of the contract.
4.4.4. Subtask: System Architecture Support
The Contractor shall provide a Systems Architect who is responsible for developing 
documentation and requirements for current and future state use of technology. The Systems 
Architect activities will result in roadmaps, and transition/transformation planning (e.g., 
technology bricks, setting enterprise standards, etc.). As ARPA-H evolves the Architect will, 
at a minimum, be responsible for other documentation needed and is, at a minimum, 
responsible for:
• Identifying, planning, and supporting system initiatives,
• Establishing and maintaining technology roadmaps,
• Defining and communicating standards, and
• Soliciting regular feedback from internal customers.
4.4.5. Subtask: Compliance with Federal, HHS, and NIH policies and 
requirements
The Contractor shall, at all times, ensure that work is in compliance with Federal Law and 
Regulations, and with Local Laws and Regulations. The contractor shall specifically ensure that:
a) Inherently Governmental functions are observed and that Contractor 
personnel identify themselves as Contractors in all communications.
b) Ensure only the appropriate disclosure of Government and 3rd party 
information is made in accordance with Contract requirements and with 
Non-Disclosure Agreements. 
c) The Contractor shall support Government personnel in complying with the 
Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA) and 
ARPA-H guidance for FITARA Clearance. Such support will require the 
Contractor to provide information on configurations, costs, and project 
concerning IT roadmaps and/or transformation.
d) The Contractor shall, always ensure compliance with the Federal 
Information Security Management Act (FISMA), and other relevant Federal 
Information Technology policies and guidance, derived from law or HHS Policy.
4.4.6. IT Security Management and Compliance 
Security Management services and compliance includes the physical and logical 
security of all Government assets, software application components and data, access 
protection and other IT related security services and shall be in compliance with ARPAH Security policies and all applicable federal regulatory requirements. The following 
identifies Security Management roles and responsibilities associated with Service 
Delivery:
• Ensure that all IT security functions are routinely inspected and reported as part 
of Quality Control and Quality Assurance and shall maintain security 
requirements, standards, procedures, and policies including regulatory 
requirements. 
• Where required by ARPA-H the Contractor shall participate in industry security 
forums and user groups to remain up to date with current security trends, threats, 
common exploits and security policies and procedures.
• Recommend security standards, policies, and procedures including industry best 
practices for remediating and implementing Plans of Actions and Milestone.
• Work with NIH Government Security Team and/or GAO audits to conduct risk 
assessment, identify control or security gaps, develop remediation plans, and 
respond to Government audits.
• Document IT security practices and plans based upon standards and practices, 
ARPA-H policies, and federal requirements.
• Implement physical and logical security plans consistent with ARPA-H security 
policies and industry standards / practices (e.g., FISMA, NIST, ISO, other • Establish access profiles and policies for adding, changing, enabling/disabling, 
and deleting log-on access of ARPA-H employees, agents, and subcontractors.
• Implement log-on/security-level access changes as detailed in profiles and 
policies.
• Report security violations to ARPA-H within parameters of ARPA-H policies.
• Work with ARPA-H Senior Information Systems Security Officer (SISSO) and 
other Government Security Teams to resolve security violations that originate 
outside of the hosted network(s) (e.g., denial of service attacks, spoofing, Web 
exploits).
• Review all security patches relevant to the IT environment and classify the need 
and speed in which the security patches should be installed as defined by security 
policies.
• Install security patches within 48 hours, or as otherwise directed by the ARPA-H.
• Remediate security vulnerabilities within a five (5) business day period, or as 
otherwise directed by ARPA-H.
• Perform testing in conjunction with security patch deployment.
• Participate in and support periodic security audits (Government or 3rd party).
• Maintain all documentation required for security audits and internal control and 
control testing.
• Place and support systems with particularly sensitive data in controlled access 
areas. Only Users with current, authorized access permission will be allowed to 
enter these areas.